-->

Applying for a Bachelor's Degree Program – Step by Step

You would like to apply for a bachelor’s degree program at the Technical University of Munich (TUM)? Here, you will find all the information you need. The same process applies to teaching degrees and orientation programs.


    Chart: Application for Bachelor’s degree programs


    Tutorial: Application via TUMonline


    Display external content

At this point content of an external provider (source: www.xyz.de ) is integrated. When displaying, data may be transferred to third parties or cookies may be stored, therefore your consent is required.

You can find more information and the possibility to revoke your consent at www.tum.de/datenschutz .

I agree

        1. You prepare your application

  - Be aware of the general requirements for university studies and our assessment procedures.
  - In the online application, you will be asked to upload all required documents for admission. Find out which documents you need , and prepare them beforehand – for example, you will need a letter of motivation or an essay in most cases.

        1.1 Note for international applicants

You are applying with an international higher education entrance qualification? Be sure to observe these additional steps before starting your online application:

  - Check your higher education entrance qualification
  - Provide proof of your language skills within the application period
  - Apply for your preliminary documentation via uni-assist before 15.07. (application for winter semester) or 15.01. (application for summer semester)
  - Learn about the specific requirements for applicants from certain countries
  - Be aware of possible visa requirements

        2. You apply via TUMonline

The first step is the online application via our portal TUMonline . If you apply for more than one degree program , please submit a separate application for each program .

Our application wizard will guide you step by step through the online application procedure. All documents required for admission have to be uploaded in PDF format to the online application form.

After submitting the online application, you can view its status any time in your TUMonline account .

Please note: We can only consider your application if you upload all required documents and submit the complete application within the application period.

Depending on the degree program, the required documents include:

  - your higher education entrance qualification
  - for applicants with an international higher education entrance qualification the preliminary documentation (VPD) from uni-assist . If the VPD is not available yet, you can confirm the timely competion of the application for the VPD by submitting our form .
  - all relevant documents regarding previous education , training , or anything related to higher education etc.
  - proof of required language skills
  - your CV – please note that it has to be current and must not contain gaps. Feel free to use the Europass Template by the European Union
  - your passport
  - where appropriate, proof of military service, voluntary civilian service, voluntary ecological year, etc.
  - where appropriate, proof of internships , volunteer work, etc.
  - where required letter of motivation , essay etc.
You do not have to submit any hardcopies before your application is reviewed and you receive an offer of admission . Please upload all documents to TUMonline before the application deadline. Documents submitted via email cannot be processed.


        3. We review your application

Your application will be reviewed as soon as all required documents are submitted in time. Due to the high number of applications we receive, this may take several weeks. You can check the status of your application any time in your TUMonline Account . You will also be notified about important updates to your application account via email, so be sure to check your email account and your spam folder regularly.

Learn more about the status options shown in TUMonline.

The next steps of your application process depend on the type of admission procedure required by your chosen degree program.


        3.1 Degree programs with aptitude assessment

If your desired degree program is subject to aptitude assessment , a two-step procedure will follow:

  - First, your grade point average and subject-specific grades will be evaluated using a point system . Which grades are evaluated and how they are weighted depends on the degree program. Each program has a set of regulations that defines the formula to be used.
  - Depending on the amount of points accumulated , yourare either immediately admitted , rejected or invited to a 20 minute admissions interview conducted by the department or school .
Please note: Other than with the Numerus Clausus programs, the number of spots available is not fixed. We accept all applicants we regard as qualified. As such, no lotteries will be held after final selections have been made, and there will be no list of alternatives for unsuccessful applicants to claim unwanted spots.


        3.2 Degree programs with aptitude recommendation

If your desired degree program is subject to aptitude recommendation , a two-step procedure will follow. It is designed to support students in choosing the degree program best suited to their interests and abilites.

  - First, your grade point average and subject-specific grades will be evaluated using a point system . Which grades are evaluated and how they are weighted depends on the degree program. Each program has a set of regulations that defines the formula to be used.
  - Depending on the amount of points accumulated, you are either immediately admitted or invited to a mandatory, 20 minute interview carried out by the department or school .
The result of the interview determines whether you receive a recommendation for the degree program. The purpose of the recommendation is to help you select the right program – it is, however, no mandatory requirement for admission.


        3.3 Unrestricted degree programs

As soon as all required documents have been received on time and in the correct form , as well as processed by the TUM, applicants will receive an acceptance letter by email. There is no seperate admission procedure.


        4.1 We notify you about your admission

You will receive an email confirmation of your admission to a degree program at TUM. The offer of admission will also appear in your TUMonline Account. So be sure to check your inbox, your spam folder and your TUMonline account regularly.


        4.2 You accept your spot

Please accept your admission offer as soon as possible ! You can do this in your TUMonline Account . If you don’t accept, you will not be enrolled.

Upon accepting your admission offer, you will have the option to download your admission notification in TUMonline .

You have received an admission offer, but due to some reason have to postphone the start of your studies? Here you will find everything you need to know about reserving your spot.


        5. You submit the documents for enrollment

As soon as you accept your spot, you will be able to submit the required documents for enrollment. Enrollment is the step that makes you a student of TUM.

To complete your enrollment, we need all documents for enrollment in the correct form.

A list of the required documents will be displayed in your TUMonline account. A valid health insurance is always required for enrollment. Please note that all documents required as notarized hardcopies always have to be submitted by post.

All documents not originally issued in German or English need to be translated . TUM does not assume any liability for unsolicited original certificates. Please note that all hardcopies are digitalized and destroyed after the end of the application period.

More information:

  - Glossary of Documents
  - Notarization of Documents
  - Translation of Documents
  - Recognition of Credits

        6. You pay the semester fee

After accepting your admission offer, please pay the semester fees and, if applicable, the tuition fees for international students from third countries .

All information you need about student union fees and the bank transfer process can be found in your TUMonline Account .


        7. We complete your enrollment

As soon as

  - all documents are registered and labeled as correct in your TUMonline account ,
  - TUM received a digitally transmitted confirmation of your insurance status by a statutory health insurance company,
  - you accepted an offer of admission ,
  - and transfered your semester fees and, if applicable, the tuition fees for international students from third countries .
you will be enrolled at TUM and notified by email . Please remember to check your TUMonline account regularly to keep up-to-date. For technical reasons it may take up to 24 hours until your status of enrollment is verified in your account.

If you have received a letter of admission for a restricted degree program with dialogue-oriented service procedure (NC) you need to fulfil all conditions for enrollment (see above, steps 5.2 to 7) within 14 days after the admission was issued.

You can find an overview of the necessary steps for enrollment here: Enrollment via TUMonline .

After enrollment you can download your student documents in your TUMonline account . These include

  - proof of enrollment,
  - confirmation of payment of fees.
Please note:

Enrollment for the summer semester is in February at the earliest, for the winter semester not before August. Enrollment is valid from the beginning of the semester on April 1 (summer semester) or October 1 (winter semester).


        8. You receive your Student Card

The student card is student I.D., library card, and electronic payment card – and therefore an important prerequisite for studying at TUM.

Where and when to get your Student Card


        What's Next?

Congratulations - your studies can now begin. Ahead of the first lecture there are still things to be taken care of: From registering at the university library to finding a place to live. Here you will find valuable tips and services to help you get started.


        Start the online application

Any Questions?
Please refer to TUM’s extensive advisory service anytime.

Glossary of Documents
All you need to know about application documents

Dates and Deadlines
Lecture period, lecture-free days, or enrollment periods – all semester dates and deadlines at a glance .

FAQs about your studies at TUM
Find answers to the most frequently asked questions .

Student Advising and Information Services
+ 49 89 289 22245 studium spam prevention @tum.de

Please observe the e-mail etiquette .

Personal advising sessions with General Student Advising by appointment

Service Desk
Campus Munich Arcisstraße 21, Room 0144 80333 München

Monday, 9 a.m. – 12 p.m. Tuesday, 1 p.m. – 4 p.m. (Student Information only) Wednesday, 9 a.m. – 12 p.m. Friday, 9 a.m. – 12 p.m.
